hello everyone i'm basically a modern
slave
um i wanted to tell you guys a little
bit about my current work situation i am
working as a pizza delivery driver i
work 13 to 15 hours a day four to five
days per week making approximately
3.60 that's euro right per hour plus
tips
um
then they were
when when they were hiring they said
i'll need to work 11 hour shifts plus
taking co-workers home after work
apparently those few hours cleaning
pizza place after the shift driving my
co-workers home is not paid
this week i worked for six days per week
the boss called me in other words
begging me to help them by working but
only this week because two other people
left after the new year and one got
kovid i asked if i have a choice the
boss said basically no
i agreed because i thought it's only
that one week today i find out that next
week i'm working six days as well that
made me quite furious
this last week i felt
i feel like i'm not even living life i
wake up go to work get absolutely tired
get back home sleep because at that
moment you don't want to do anything
else and repeat i just want to quit so
bad
anyways just needed a space to a place
to vent i thought about quitting
tomorrow my shift starts in five minutes
it's gonna be a long day
stay strong folks and i'll try to do the
same
okay
um so the first thing is that i'm
noticing that a lot of people in chat
are kind of saying like
this has to be this location oh this
sounds like portugal this sounds like
france
um you know this sounds like this part
and i think the truth is that this is
happening everywhere right
so what i'd like to talk to you all
about today is like how do people become
modern slaves right so what are what are
the circumstances that
lead to this kind of situation where
you know they're they're hired
under these conditions and even told at
the very beginning that like it's going
to be 11 hour shifts and they're gonna
have to take
home co-workers in some ways this is
even like better than usual because a
lot of times
during the hiring process people will
say one thing and then they'll force you
to do something else and it's really
tough because in these situations you
know we may look at this and people on
the internet will say just quit
just to go find another job
right but the truth is that if you're in
this situation of modern slavery it's
not that simple there's a reason why you
wound up here in the first place and
it's not like that this person is like
foolish or anything like that it's not
that this person is lazy or foolish or
you know doesn't know any better or
things like that there are very real
circumstances both externally and
internally that lead people into the
situation and until we have an
appreciation for like how someone gets
here and what goes into this situation
then
then only can we start to really come up
with solutions to help people get out of
the situation
and so what i'm going to talk a little
bit about today is like um you know
modern slavery
and how do people get into this
situation and more importantly like what
are the key dynamics at play
uh so for example what are the power
dynamics at play what kind of like
modeling has this person had early in
their life
um how do they determine what is
acceptable or unacceptable and then
other kinds of stuff as well
so
you know some of this stuff is like you
know for example this person is saying
those few hours are not paid and it's
like
you know a lot of people will be like
wait what like then why are you doing it
how is that legal that can't be legal it
may not be legal
the other thing is that you know we see
other things that happen a lot in
working situations the boss called me
begging me to help them work
right so when a boss begs you
what is going on psychologically when
begging is happening
the next thing that happens i asked if i
have a choice and the boss said
basically no
does basically no mean no
or is it almost no
so if something is almost no or
basically no
does that what does that actually mean
right so this is the kind of thing where
like oftentimes in work situations
because of power dynamics and and you
know boundary setting issues
people will use certain kinds of
language and then like we won't really
clarify what that means
and then what we end up doing
because like i want you all to
understand this for a second when you
know you ask if you have a choice and
your boss says basically no
in their mind are they thinking that you
have a choice actually kinda yes
right because they sort of like you're
asking if you have a chess and they're
like oh they agreed to it so a boss can
walk out of this interaction believing
that
the the worker agreed to this
right so so this is the kind of thing
that like you know there's a lot
actually going on here that we can learn
from about setting health healthy
boundaries especially in power dynamic
situations that is like really really
important
the last thing is today i found out i'm
working six days as well right so like
in this situation do you have the power
to say no
and then the last thing is that made me
quite furious so when you're at work and
you feel something right so when your
boss is begging me what do you feel
and when you start to feel quite furious
you feel a certain way like what do you
do with those feelings
right how do those feelings interact
with your boss how do they interact with
your uh work environment essentially
what are the emotional drives
that happen within us that create
situations like this
and in my overwhelming experience
understanding the emotional drives
and understanding the power dynamics and
how to set healthy boundaries has been
very very helpful to people to like
create like good work environments and
this is the kind of thing where when i
say create good and work work
environments i don't mean just for the
employees so this may sound kind of
weird because i know at least the
anti-work subreddit is like very like
anti-employer
but like
i want you all to think about this work
situation like do you think the employer
is happy here they've had two people
quit
they've had one person get sick with
kovid maybe because they've had coveted
policies that aren't really great right
and then like this person is on the
verge of quitting like this is not a
good place even from an employer's
perspective so
some people may think a lot about okay
like you know this this this is a
predatory workplace and it absolutely is
but people sort of assume that a
predatory workplace is good for the
employer which in my overwhelming
experience is not the case
and so this is where understanding some
of these things because like this person
that this employer is basically by
virtue of
crapping on their employees so much
driving their employees away and like
pulling pushing themselves out of
business like that's what they're doing
and so the interesting thing is that
acknowledging healthy boundaries and
sort of like acknowledging emotions at
work you know being very clear about
communication and not taking advantage
of your employees is actually good for
the employer too there's sort of this
idea that like you know work like that
if you're a predator predatory employer
that you're winning when in my
experience overwhelmingly and i've done
consulting at a lot of different
companies
the companies that do the best are the
ones that have happy employees and like
respectful employers like when there's
respect on both sides when there's
fairness on both sides that's actually
when things end up the best so let's
talk a little bit about modern slavery
and how we get here so i'd say that the
biggest thing that leads to modern
slavery is unhealthy boundaries
so a lot of times at work we'll have
these situations where bosses will beg
us right they'll like ask us for favors
and so there'll be like all like so this
job for example has unhealthy boundaries
at the get-go so like for example if you
were to ask this person
when do you start work
and then the person will say like i
start work at this time and when does
work end well
work sort of ends like when i'm done
with my shift but then i have to clean
after i have to drop people off oh okay
so is that like a part of your job and
they're like well sort of do you get
paid for it well not really
then is it a part i'm confused this is
like a favor is it part of your job like
what is that extra uncompensated time so
work you know starts here and goes here
and you get compensated here or euro
right did i do the euro symbol right or
is that backwards
it's lagging whatever
and then um
and then there's like this extra time
over here which is like uncompensated
so is that a part of your job or is that
not a part of your job so in the united
states if you require someone to do
something generally speaking you have to
pay them for it there are some
exceptions to that but generally
speaking that's kind of the case
and so
um
[Music]
uh this is lagging again okay whatever
so
if that's the case then what is this is
this part of your job or is this not
part of your job so the first thing that
we kind of realize from this scenario is
that there are unhealthy boundaries so
if you're in a situation where it's like
a little bit unclear what's a part of
your job or what isn't a part of your
job like that's the
the start of unhealthy boundaries
so what tends to happen if you have
unhealthy boundaries is this results in
something called job creep
right so we see this like especially in
programming and stuff where there's like
scope creep where if you've got like a
project and then like
you're
you know then someone else wants this
feature and then you want this feature
and then suddenly like the project that
was this big
over time becomes this big and then over
time becomes this big but
early on like you were budgeted for this
and then people get confused when they
ask for like you know this and then they
ask for this and then you end up paying
more euro and then like they're super
confused they're like but
but this was the budget that you gave me
so we see this a lot in terms of like
when you have developers working with
like executives right they're like this
is on you see this a lot even in the
gaming industry but it's like we want to
have customized armor and it's like
that's going to cost you something right
and then we end up with all kinds of
problems like games being released too
early and things like that
so in the same way in a job oftentimes
what we'll see is that there's like
there's going to be some kind of like
boundary
that is
unhealthy or muddy in some way and then
like as that boundary is nice and loose
like unhealthy employers will cause you
to like little cram stuff into there
right so the biggest example that we see
which we definitely saw today
was
you know
um
where is this work
uh yeah so like
because two people left after the new
year and one got covered so like what's
happening to this work so there used to
be three additional people at work
and like
where is that work going it's going into
this person right so the person who
stays the one who's like getting all
that work
and so what tends to happen with
employers actually is like this is a
common thing that i see is that
if you have unhealthy if you have loose
boundaries if there are two people at
work
one of them has loose boundaries and one
of them has firm boundaries the one with
the loose boundaries is the one that
keeps on getting more work right you're
going to keep on getting more and more
work packed into your unhealthy boundary
because you're the person like at the
very beginning and we see this with this
person so the person even when they got
hired did not set a firm boundary where
like they were told like at the
beginning of work that hey you're gonna
have to do a bunch of work that we're
not gonna pay you for and the person was
like
okay
and so in doing so they've established
a fluid boundary
right and once they they've established
a fluid boundary then we're like you
know it's kind of like open season like
oh people quit
yeah you're gonna need to do this and
then what what's gonna happen is
employers and this isn't just employers
this is humans okay so employees will do
this with employers as well by the way
so it's not like one way
so then what's what's gonna happen is by
the way
you gotta
pick people up
right so these are bad working
conditions and then we have like these
two people over here
who have fern boundaries and they quit
right because they were like this is
ridiculous i'm like i'm not getting paid
for this the other one person that stays
so they stay
and then this work goes over here and
then suddenly this person is working
six days a week
because of begging and we'll get to that
in a second
and then just this week
but what do we know about this person's
boundaries
what are they gonna do if we push them
they're gonna be like okay and then into
next week
and then they're gonna experience
frustration
right but what do they do with their
frustration they post on the internet
they don't go have a conversation with
their boss or their employer and say hey
this is ridiculous i'm on the verge of
quitting and then what's going to happen
is they're going to be get fed up
and then they're going to quit
and you may say like so the anti-work
subreddit i think is going to be like
cheering if this person quits right
they're going to be like yay like this
person quit like screw capitalism screw
stick it to the man which is totally
fine i mean i i have nothing against you
know quitting and leaving a a
unfair employer to figure out their own
mess
but i'm concerned about this person
because what do you think is going to
happen
the next time they get a job
right are these are all these boundary
issues magically going to be fixed i
don't think so
right
next time what's going to happen is
maybe they'll find another job where
someone's like gonna start off because
you you'll see that like
this scenario is actually designed to
like not end well
and it's all because of unhealthy
boundaries so then the question is like
you know what's going on here and and
what what contributes to this so we
start with unhealthy boundaries
and what are like how do we like where
does this come from there are a couple
of other things here so one
is there's conflict avoidance
this is a huge thing so if we want to
understand how to correct this behavior
we have to understand conflict avoidance
so this person had multiple options to
like set a boundary right so why don't
we set good boundaries that's kind of
the next point like okay dr k you're
saying second good boundaries why don't
we because we're conflict avoidant so at
the job interview when they're told from
the get-go by the way you're gonna need
to work 11-hour days and you have to
drop people off
and then like what do you say at that
point right like why don't you say
anything you're like oh okay
and then you ask these these questions
like do i have a choice
and then the person says basically no
and then it's like what's going on there
that's all conflict avoidance so this
person is not saying has never said to
their boss
i don't think that this is fair
right they've never set a boundary
they've said i'm happy to work i'm happy
to do whatever you want to but if this
is a job i expect to be compensated like
i'm confused are you asking me to
volunteer my time
or is this like paid work does this need
to be done
and if you're hiring me like why is it
my responsibility to arrange for
transport i'm confused i thought my job
was to make pizza so is this a part of
my job description or is this not a part
of my job description
now i'm not saying that like
you shouldn't and this is one of the
worst things that i think has happened
is that the you know employers have
taken the aspect of team player and
abused it so much that it like terrifies
me as someone who has both worked in
good team player environments and now
like someone who employs people like so
we love team players but somewhere along
the way
team player started to mean
like
we're gonna ask you to do a bunch of
work and we're not gonna compensate for
you for it like that's not what a team
player is like i don't know if you all
have ever done this but i've worked in
environments where people are team
players and those are awesome
environments like what does a team
player mean i still remember to this day
in the summer of 2014
i was i was in residency for two months
and i was just so overwhelmed and so
overworked and my like colleagues right
next to me were equally overwhelmed and
equally overworked
and the doctor that was sitting next to
me also in residency for two months
we've been doing it just as long
i have to do something called a prior
authorization which is i have to make a
phone call to an insurance company to
try to get them to pay for a medication
that one of my patients needs and
usually this is like a 30 minute like
process where you sit on hold for like
20 minutes i was just exhausted and the
doctor next to me turns to me and says
you want me to take care of that prior
off for you
and i was like dude you have too much to
do like i can't like i can't ask you
this and like seriously don't worry
about it like i'll take care of it for
you and she took care of it for me and
it was like the nicest thing in the
world like even now seven years later i
remember that moment because
like it's not like she had a less work
than i did we both had a ton of work
we're both overworked but she was a team
player in that moment and so to this day
i've tried my best to repay her but i
don't think like i've never repaid that
debt despite my best efforts so you can
absolutely like be a team player like i
think being a team player is good like
the whole point of a corporation at
least in my mind and maybe it's profit
and stuff like that but
you know i think the point is that like
if you guys have ever worked in
environments where you're just all by
yourself like that's not fun it's not
engaging the whole point if we think
about like aoe healing in this community
the whole point is that we can do stuff
together that we can't do on our own but
what's happened in the like the
capitalistic corporate world is team
player has been hijacked culturally
appropriated to be like a veil over
abusive work practices
and that's ridiculous so now like people
are like oh we don't want team players
it's like i don't want to work in any
environment where they're team players
like what do you want you want to work
in a cubicle where you're like a peon
like sitting at a computer doing like
that's terrible
right so i'm not blaming those people
for avoiding the term team player what
i'm blaming is that companies are like
starting to use team player as you know
some license to be predatory and put
people into like a slavery-like
situation that's ridiculous
but we want to work in teams like that's
fun like it's good to be a team player
anyway
so if we kind of look at this
what we see here is a thread of conflict
avoidance and if we want to understand
you know why are we conflict avoidant
then what happens
is we need to look at
emotional drivers
so this in turn results in emotional
drivers
or not results in is due to emotional
so if we kind of look at this post we
see a lot of emotions threaded out
through here right
so like when they were hiring they said
i'll need to work 11 hour shifts plus
taking
co-workers home after work apparently
those few hours is not paid so like what
do you imagine this person was feeling
in that moment
what do you think that was going through
their head
and then now it's like when their boss
calls and begs them
like they're begging and forcing this is
really confusing so the boss called me
in other words begging me to help them
because two people left i asked if i
have a choice and the boss said no so
what's happening here is the boss
forcing them or begging them because in
one situation the power dynamic is that
if i'm begging you you have all the
power in the other situation if i'm
forcing you you have none of the power
so there's a weird power dynamics crap
going on there's weird emotional drivers
going on and then you feel furious and
what do you do with that period do you
talk to your boss about it no
you just either take it
you just keep taking it right
or what you do is you just like reach
your limit and you quit which is what
this person has managed to like this is
the work environment they managed to
create they've not created a work
environment where people feel
comfortable
coming to their boss and sharing with
them like what their concerns are which
is crucial it's critical right so all of
the good environments that i've worked
in have systems of feedback where like
people can go to the you know their
superiors and they can say hey i'm
unhappy with this and it's not like the
superior listens to you 100 they're not
going to like make changes like for
example you know residents in the united
states are like criminally underpaid but
we have no negotiating power and even my
boss doesn't really have much
negotiating power there
because they have to answer to like a
whole like systemic
industry of predatory work and for
medical residents but that's neither
here nor there so right so like that's
not my boss's fault like they're going
to advocate and do what they can and
they're like they honestly are trying to
make things better they're happy to work
there they want to be a team player they
want to support us we want to support
them and it's awesome like i still that
to this day
literally this morning i texted my
former boss because they're an awesome
person and i have like really good
relationship with them
um
and so what are these emotional drivers
okay so let's like start to look at a
couple of common emotional drivers so
i'll give you guys an example of how
emotional drivers
result in
um
poor boundaries okay so let's use an
example first
so
let's say i'm afraid of loneliness
and then i start hanging out with some
friends
and then one of them
makes fun of me
what do i do
right i'm afraid of loneliness what do i
do
what do y'all think
you laugh it off right
you're so funny when you call me an
idiot
ignore it
right
so then what does that what kind of
behavior does that
reinforce
so then someone else a different friend
friend
number two
makes fun of you the next day
right and then what do you do well like
no
kind of weird
right
and then you kind of like
laugh it off
walls
yeah you're right i'm so insignificant
of a human being
and now since you're afraid of
loneliness like you kind of tolerate
this behavior and then the group sort of
learns they're like oh cool so this
person is the butt of the jokes
great
we needed someone to beat up on when
we're feeling bad about ourselves
fantastic and so you become the butt of
the jokes
and now you know you're the butt of the
jokes like it's become a thing like the
whole group is like this is the person
like you know and it starts off as like
oh wow this person is awesome they can
take a joke but like over time it grows
and they push that boundary and they
start making fun of you and then like
you end up in these situations where
your friends like actually actively
bully you
but then why do you stay because you're
afraid of loneliness
because if i tell them hey that's not
funny
this person will dislike me
if they dislike me they will not invite
me to their house if they don't invite
me to their house and they invite all of
my other friends
i will be alone
so it's like i have a choice either i
can hang out with these people have some
fun and be the butt of the jokes or i
can be a loser like i can be a loser at
home on my own or i can be a loser with
them but still have friends and not be
like as much of a loser
right so this is just an example of how
an emotional
drive actually leads to unhealthy
boundaries so does this happen at work
and
absolutely right so like let's think
about a couple of different things that
happen
so people
are reluctant to ask for stuff
why are we reluctant to ask for stuff
because we don't want to be perceived as
greedy
right so who's greedy
the corporation or the employee like we
don't want to be like them like we
demonize greed like even right now
within the anti-work subreddit we are
demonizing greed
and what are we doing by demonizing
greed we're saying oh these corporations
are so evil and greedy
and like in a bizarre way we're actually
like
we're labeling this thing as green which
i'm with but then what what's gonna
happen is like subconsciously we're
actually like at the same time
making employees feel greedy for doing
things like asking for raises or just
compensation or things like that so this
is a huge thing i don't want my boss to
think i'm greedy
okay
huge emotional driver
it's emotional driver number one
um emotional driver number two so when
people when it comes to time for like
promotion and things like that
people have difficulty advocating for
themselves in a work environment right
so they have like difficulty advocating
for what they're worth
and why is that it's because i don't
want to be perceived
as a show-off
right so like if you crush let's say
you've got some kind of contract and you
do a really good job
and then like you don't want to be
perceived as a show-off so you don't
like really advocate for yourself you
don't really let your boss know you
don't let other people know because
there's someone else at work who's
always talking about how awesome they
are and you don't want to be like that
person so you don't want to be perceived
as a show-off so you don't share your
accomplishments
right and then what happens
then
your colleague
gets promoted
and then what do you do
you mauled
right
and then you start talking about
how biased
and evil
your boss is
oh my god they're so biased
see this all the
time which may be true right so we're
not saying and this is the problem with
echo chambers on the internet is that
like
someone will post this but like no one
will ever say like do you advocate for
yourself
right i'm not saying that that these
predatory workplaces don't exist i'm not
saying that these employers are behaving
properly but what i'm saying is that
like in this scenario and what we tend
to focus on is you so what are the
emotional drivers at play
that force you into situations
that are unhealthy for you and actually
happen to be unhealthy for the employer
generally speaking i believe maybe i'm
wrong there i'm not an expert in
business
okay so you don't want to be perceived
as a show-off
now there's other kinds of weird things
as well right so like you get guilt
trips so like you want to be a team
player
like and so this is where the guilt
tripping comes in
this isn't just employers right this is
like you have to be careful about the
emotional driver of not feeling like an
because that's a really powerful driver
because you don't think of yourself as
the right the boss is the
the corporation is the
i'm not the
therefore if your boss comes to you and
begs you and by the way we see this
one-two punch all the way and all the
time in unhealthy environments that
one-two punch is guilt plus forcing and
it's not just unhealthy work
environments it's also like abusive
relationships so if you have like a
narcissistic parent or family member or
things like that they will both force
you and guilt you like at the same time
so i've seen parents that will do things
like guilt their kid into coming home
for the holidays and then like there's
the cat there's the it's not even the
carrot it's like one kind of stick and
another kind of stick and by the way if
you don't come home for the holidays i'm
not gonna pay for your college anymore
and then you're like and i'm so lonely
like i've done so much for you i'm
paying for your college
and if you're not gonna like come home
for the holidays like i can't believe i
do so much for you like i can't believe
that you wouldn't even come home like
don't you realize how like alone i am
like i've done everything for you i've
sacrificed for you and how dare you try
to have a life outside of me and by the
way if you're not gonna like you know
sacrifice for me like if your friends
are more important to
you than i am then maybe i have other
things that are more important to me
than you are
right it's like there's this weird
one-two punch of begging you to take
these extra shifts and forcing you to do
so
so watch out for the emotional driver of
guilt trip right and like you're not
being an
by setting a limit to someone it
certainly feels that way
but be aware of that emotional driver
okay
next thing
so
the
hidden
tracking i don't know what to call this
of
rays versus fire
so internally we have this weird little
complex
that is always trying to figure out are
we going to get raised are we going to
get raised are we going to get promoted
are we going to get fired because no one
ever like keeps score right like the
score is not kept really above board
like you don't know when you have
strikes you don't know when you have
check marks so let's say let you know
there's three check marks
in order to get a raise we need three
check marks
right
and then in order to get fire we need
three x's
but no one ever tells you like which of
these you have and which of these you
don't have so there's just this guessing
game going on so this is all like behind
you know
you can't see what's going on here
so a lot of times in these particular
situations like if we go back to this
this example where the person is saying
they're told in the interview by the way
you have to work 11 hour days and
there's a bunch of unpaid work after
that you have to do
what this person is thinking is this is
like a subtle test right there's a check
mark at play like if i set a boundary or
even ask a question this person is going
to think oh my god i'm not a team player
and then i will be one step closer to
not being hired or being fired or not
getting promoted right because we all
want approval
and then similarly for each of these
different things that this person is
being asked to do drive people home
you know come in six days a week what
they're thinking in their mind is like
is this going to move me towards
promotion
and what's really devastating for people
is that they will do all kinds of stuff
gunning for promotion
right but since it's all opaque they
actually don't know they're like i'm
gonna make this sacrifice
sacrifice one
and then sacrifice two and then
sacrifice three but like since i don't
want to be perceived as a show-off i'm
sort of quietly making these sacrifices
and not really like advertising it
because i don't want to seem greedy and
then when promotion time
promotion time comes around someone else
gets promoted and then you feel
resentful
or frustrated
and this is where the the journey ends
so now what do you do with this
resentment or frustration you tend to
quit
or swallow it
and keep going
what people don't do is like share some
kind of feedback with their boss right
we don't go up to our boss and we don't
say hey by the way i've been working
really hard and i've been actually going
the extra mile and being a team player
and i'm like i don't understand why this
person was promoted because based on my
experience i actually work way more than
they do
right so we don't say things like that
we don't air things out to our boss now
that doesn't mean that maybe that person
is doing all kinds of stuff so that
you're not aware of that is the reason
that they got promoted but it's i think
it's completely reasonable to share that
kind of stuff with your boss
the key thing here though is that you
know until you start acknowledging
these emotional drivers
that drive these unhealthy boundaries
and put you in situations that are
predatory this kind of thing is going to
keep happening
you can keep job hunting and should you
quit this kind of job like absolutely
right so there's like i think you should
quit and try to go find another job by
all means
but be careful because the next time
around when you're in one of these jobs
and someone tries to push a boundary
like it's okay to do things outside of
your role like even now today i do
things that are outside of my role
you know we have like that's actually
pretty normal for like a pretty healthy
functioning workplace
but over time what you want is like some
amount of compensation for that
acknowledgement of that or like you know
how we can do things that hg is like
someone does something outside of their
role and they do it for a while and
they're like you know this is actually
really frustrating like okay so it
sounds like we really need to hire a
person to take that off your plate so
that you can focus on your job that's
how it should go
at a company
right
and so this kind of thing is happening
all the time
um
and
if we don't want to fall into this trap
of modern slavery it really comes with
setting healthy boundaries
setting healthy boundaries in turn
has to do with understanding why we
don't set healthy boundaries so there
may be some degree of of power dynamics
at play but a big part of it tends to be
conflict avoidance
and especially the the conflict
avoidance that you're concerned about
has to do with emotional drivers
and those being you know
wanting to be perceived as a certain way
you don't want to be perceived as greedy
you don't want to be a show-off you want
to be a team player you don't want to
like feel guilty right so the avoidance
of that feeling of guilt results in you
making a sacrifice and if you're in an
unhealthy work environment your employer
is not going to recognize that and it
not acknowledge it or you know won't
promote you or something i mean
hopefully at least there's an
acknowledgment of some kind
you know and sometimes the
acknowledgment is like ridiculous
so like i remember hearing during the
pandemic you know some ceo of a hospital
system got a 16 million dollar bonus
and all of the residents in that same
hospital system got a thank you cap
they got a hat
and it's like one guy's making 16
million dollars in the residents who are
like on the front lines taking care of
patients or getting caps
this is ridiculous
right
so
um
and then a couple of other things to
keep in mind are that
in your mind be aware of what if you're
keeping this hidden tracker
of am i on track for a promotion or am i
on track to get fired
and like how much does that fear
of not getting promoted or striving to
be promoted
or you know
not getting fired how much does that
influence whether you let other people
like
cross your boundaries
and then lastly as you start to
build up negative emotions from the
result of numbers one through four
you're going to end up with resentment
and frustration how do you manage that
resentment and frustration do you just
let it build up and quit do you offer
feedback to your boss and say hey this
is not really working for me or i'm very
unhappy here
what do you think is going to happen
or do you swallow it and keep going
because generally speaking the two
things that people do is this and this
whereas what they should be doing is
have a conversation
this is where you may say but if i have
a conversation like nothing is going to
change and that's what like now hold on
a second i i think you got to be careful
there because it's possible that nothing
may change you may be at a work
environment where people are completely
unresponsive to your feedback and they
don't care what you think and in that
case you should absolutely quit and
people may say okay if i quit how do i
find a different job this is what you
say when you go into your next job you
all ready for it you guys want to get a
good job out of this situation how you
turn this situation into a good job here
it is
hi
my name is
mad for money
i'm a dedicated hard worker and i'm a
team player why did i leave my last job
so i started out working 11 hour days
and then i found out that you know
people need to transport two and four
from work so i actually went ahead and
did that
and then a couple people quit and my
boss asked me to like lift more and i
was actually happy to do that so for one
week i started working six days a week
11 hour shifts i'm a dedicated worker
i'm a team player
and the boss started making that regular
and i wasn't comfortable with that so
i'm happy to be a team player i'm happy
to be a hard worker i'm happy to go the
extra mile but i'm looking for a place
that will reward
that kind of behavior
instead of take advantage of it and
that's why i left my last employer
and then you can ask them set boundaries
then and there
how do you treat employees who go the
extra mile do they get compensated more
do they get promoted more do they get
raises
or do they get treated the same
you can ask them and then like this is
an interview right it's not just one way
because when you come into that office
like that you are an employee that
people want
right like
you are someone that they want like you
want someone who's gonna go the extra
mile and so you're interviewing them too
and so you can say like like if i go the
extra mile like how have you rewarded
employees in the past and this is when
the employer starts themselves
because if they haven't done that
they're well like we've done this and
this okay
right but i can guarantee you this like
i guess i can't guarantee it but they're
not going to walk out of that interview
thinking you're under qualified in a
pushover
does that make sense like
they may think you're an they
may think you're hard to work with
but you've demonstrated you can say like
look i'm a hard worker i just want to be
fairly compensated like that's all
you know and i'm happy to go the extra
mile but like i expect you know like i
don't want to be in a place where people
are going to take advantage of that i
want to be in a place where people
reward that kind of behavior
so that that's like you have to be
careful about your phrasing right so you
don't want to like go too far down the
every every extra minute that i work i
want one cent extra
so that kind of thing i don't think is
generally speaking what employers want
but
absolutely sort of pointing out that
you're someone who's looking to be like
rewarded for going the extra mile is
like fantastic
right so yeah and this is where people
are like kind of commenting oh like
no one wants to work like no people
actually want to work do you guys get
that this is the biggest
this is the biggest problem right now is
that people are like getting confused
employers are getting confused people
want to work people want to do things
with meaning
right they like want to be productive
like humans like being productive
they just don't want to be taken
advantage of for working
that's all
right there's not a labor shortage
there's a wage shortage like you're
working you're getting three dollars a
three euro and sixty
three point six euro per hour of work
plus tips and you're doing all this
extra work and like this is what's gonna
happen you're gonna burn through all of
your good employers employees if you're
an employer like that
and there are good places to work like
those places exist
last time i checked actually google was
one of those places
you know you don't hear like here's like
the two of opposite ends of the spectrum
right some places you have like this
where people are working a lot google's
like we're going to keep our office open
24 hours a day you can commute if you
want to you cannot come if you don't
want to by the way we want you in the
office because we've noticed that like
maybe it's good if you're in the office
so we're going to give you a bunch of
free good food there's going to be a
chef
that you can you know they'll fix you
what you want here's our menu like we're
gonna try to make your work and there's
a gym here so we want you to like take
care of yourself and we're actually
willing to put our money where our mouth
is so instead of saying yeah like we're
a company that values employee wellness
right google's like we'll give you a gym
and a chef
you know it's
so you know i think that this is the
kind of situation where like i think
this is good like i think it's healthy
because all these sort of
basically unsustainable
non-survival of the fittest
kind of like employers are gonna go bust
right and like
they're not they're not entitled to
exist like
we're talking about a free market system
like
employers that can't con enough people
are so bad
at conning people into jobs like and
people start quitting like they should
quit
you